# truth
THE TRUTH - but only as far as we see it (so far)

Published at https://castopulence.org and
https://castopulence.org/TRUTH.html.

The hive mind repo is starting at https://github.com/castopulence/truth/.
See also any forks you can find. They all have bugs, but we might as well
merge and fix what we can.

There is much work to do. We will need to improve the tools before they're
ready for prime-time. We also need to continue working on the truth
itself. It's going to start out slow because we are imprisoned to the
social orders that have existed for countless generations to try to keep
us alive. And they're composed of us, and we're afraid and skeptical, so
it will take some time before we manage to convince ourselves that we can
do better than justifying our existence with jobs that support a family
even if the work that we're doing is actually harmful for the collective.

We need to aim for a better future, like one in which we take care of all
of our neighbours regardless of whether we know them or not, forgive the
ones who are weak and make mistakes (all of us), and work together to
solve each of our problems as a collective. We need to be willing to be
selfless for the good of the rest of us. And trust that we'll collectively
do the same so that you don't have to worry either.

That's a tall order, admittedly. We need to approach it carefully to
ensure our collective survival. That's why instead of me working on that
directly I'm working on this. That is going to require us to restructure
society, achieve true equality, and redefine our social hierarchies around
the truth instead of our existing animalistic rules (typically the "best"
"animals" by some narrow definition of best). Once we understand each
others truths we'll know that we can trust each other. But until then we
will need to be careful who we do trust. I suggest using truth to
determine that. You'll know who you can trust by how much untruth they
know and how willing they are to consider that they might be wrong
relative to their position in the truth-based hierarchies. It's OK to be a
know-it-all if you are actually striving to master the truth and are
actually really close to doing it. It's much less OK if your idea of a
know-it-all is somebody that gets to be right all of the time regardless
of what they believe or say. The truth is always somewhere close to the
collective moral good, and infinity.
